### Part 1

#### Project Background

##### Motivation
Right from the outset, ideas were thrown into the mix, via an **ideas** channel on our Slack team. These included potential options such as: a school math education app, grocery/shopping list app, medication schedule and records app, fantasy sports, etc. But the timing of the imminent World Cup provided the final inspiration for a 'sports tournament tipping' application where users could submit their predictions and measure the success or failure of their prescience against other users.

##### People
- Luke Warren
  - s3409172@student.rmit.edu.au
  - need skills, interest and role description
  - team leader
- Matt Greig
  - s3439728@student.rmit.edu.au
  - need skills, interest and role description
- Blair Fraser
  - s3641830@student.rmit.edu.au
- Tyrone Cook
  - s3731802@student.rmit.edu.au
- Shae Tatlock
  - s3655740@student.rmit.edu.au

##### Aims and Goals
###### Aim

To create a functioning Web Application that allows users to compete in tournaments by submitting their predictions for the results of real-world sporting fixtures.

###### Goal #1
Create an application using a MEAN stack

Of the multiple stack's available for Web Application development, the Mongo-Express-Angular-Node stack is one of the more popular variants employed today. Mongo provides a (relatively) schema-less database that doesn't require team-members to be familiar or experienced with SQL. Instead it allows for beginner users to visually inspect database entries for validity and to become familiar with integration with a database. Node provides a Javascript back-end which is advantageous to team members who have at least some experience with this language, as opposed to other back-end languages such as Java, Python or PHP. It keeps the application contained within a single dialect. Angular is the powerful framework that provides tools for two-way data-binding and dynamic page creation that will allow our application to appear fluid and interactive. Altogether, this stack is both gentler on entry-level users, while providing the components necessary to deliver a fully-featured application.

###### Goal #2
Implement a responsive application styled with the Bootstrap framework

Bootstrap is a widely implemented and actively developed stylesheet framework which has the added benefit of providing very useful tools to develop responsive websites for multiple viewing platforms. As well as providing useful handlers for responsiveness, the existing stylings for interactive features such as buttons, tabs, navigation bars and the like, provide an out-of-the-box advantage when prototyping the site, right through to final deployment. Experience with Bootstrap would be valuable addition to each of the team member's CV's and this application provides a perfect scenario with which each team-member can gain valuable experience.

###### Goal #3
Implement a Continuous Integration (CI) build system which would test and validate code merged from each of the different team collaborators



##### Scope
- Responsive web application
- dynamic
- live data from APIs
- multiple, authenticated users
-



#### Project Progress

##### Description

##### Outcomes to Date

##### Scope Creep or Scope Contraction
The initial motivation for the application was a single sporting tournament, the World Cup. As we looked at comparable sites and investigated the plethora of applications with similar functionality, it became clear that the sustainability of such an application involved exposure to an audience wider than that of a single sport, let alone a single tournament of that sport (even if it is the largest quadrennial sporting tournament outside of the Olympics). Without extensive investigation we undertook to add multi-sport, multi-tournament capabilities to the functions of our application.

Out susceptibility to this was multi-fold. Early on, we were convinced, falsely or not, that there would be an *api-for-all*. This would provide us with endless possibilities as long as we kept our data models abstract enough. This soon proved to be harder than initially considered as most APIs were going to require a monetary subscription in order to maintain a stream of consistent and quality data with which to populate the application.

Additionally our limited experience; with only one member truly capable of authoring all components of the stack, plus the time-poor nature of study when combined with full-time work and other extra-curricular responsibilities (ie. family) meant that the time required to even develop and maintain the framework of the application was going to occupy almost exclusively the schedule for development, outside of the documentation requirements for assessment, let alone investigate, source and curate data sources for a multitude of sports and events.

##### Progress

##### Testing
Early on, during development of the stack and initial formation of the application, Luke initiated an automated build-testing system using [CircleCI](https://circleci.com) which would be triggered upon commits pushed back to the hosted repository.(insert footnote to see below)

##### Tools and Technologies

###### The stack
MEAN

Mongo *the database*

Express

Angular


Node







###### Additional Frameworks
Bootstrap

###### Support

// NOTE TO SELF: add ICONS in here

**[git](https://git-scm.com)** *version control system*

git is the version control system (VCS) *de rigeur* these days. A couple of team members had moderately-extensive experience with git, prior to undertaking the unit, while others were relatively novice, or altogether unexperienced. It was immediately recognised that git could serve as a VCS, not just for our codebase, but also for all the documentation that was to be a requirement of the project. This would have the additional benefit of providing practical exposure to those team members with minimal experience as well as facilitating collaborative development via the use of cloned local repositories and branches.

All documentation for the project (including this one) was maintained under version control in a git repository.

**[github](https:///www.github.com)** *hosted git repository*

As git is to the development community, so github is to hosted git repositories. Github allows for easy server-side hosting of a git repository, with easy authentication (coupled with the free student accounts we are eligible for), it made for a de-centralised hosting service which provides reliable up-time.

On github, within our team, we hosted two repositories. One for the code of the application we are developing, and another for the documentation.

Team members managed the repository in several ways. Some users were comfortable enough to use the command-line interface (CLI), while others used third-party applications like [GitKracken](https://www.gitkraken.com).

Github accounts were also useful, in allowing us to integrate additional platforms without requiring additional account signups (see below for CircleCI).

Github also makes it easy to view contribution reports, with an extensive array or reporting and profiling, allowing easy access to the raw data of commits and contributions by the different team members.

**[circleci](https://www.circleci.com)** *automated testing host*

CircleCI is a development pipeline automation platform. It integrates with our VCS repository(s) and is configurable to perform a defined suite of builds and tests, with notifications for success or failure, along with deployment to our hosting platform(s).

Luke took time early on, to configure CircleCI for us in order to allow for *Continuous integration* of our application, with the aforementioned alerts for conflicts or failed builds tied into the notification system for our Slack Team via integration with the CircleCI application for Slack.

**[maid](https://github.com/egoist/maid)** *live testing script as documentation*

Maid is a Node module that allows the definition of a series of tasks to be performed, as a Markdown file! By using the Markdown syntax to distinguish between blocks of code to be executed, and common, descriptive text, a Maid file can operate both as an executable script and documentation at the same time!

**[Slack](https://slack.com)** *real-time chat and collaboration platform*

Slack is one of the more powerful group collaboration tools currently in the market. It is available on multiple platforms, from Desktop to Browser, to mobile environments like iOS and Android. We decided on Slack for this purpose; it would allow team members to be accessible from multiple platforms, and by enabling notifications, hopefully would allow for communications without too much delay.

Slack allows for the creation of channels; topic-specific 'rooms' which allow us to segregate different elements of discussion throughout the course of development, without flooding a single, "main" channel. Slack adheres to the direct-notification convention, allowing a user to at ('@') another user in a public channel in order to attract their specific attention to a message.

The ability to directly communicate in privacy between users allows communications to be more focussed, allowing potentially sensitive discussion to conducted discretely, as well as also serving to keep main channels free of more direct chatter.

An added power with Slack is the extensive marketplace of integrations from common applications, including some already mentioned. We were able to extend Slack by integrating our Github repository and CircleCI project, to allow for notifications related to those two platforms to be published to our Slack team, as well as Google Hangouts integration in order to commence group chats.

**[trello](https://www.trello.com)** *collaborative project and task management system*

Trello is a task-tracking and management application, which was a compulsory requirement of the unit. Trello tracks tasks using a *virtual note card* system which allows specific tasks to be isolated to a single card, which are in turn collated with related tasks into user-defined groups, named *boards*.

Boards and Cards were used to assign team members to specific tasks, as well as being a place to publicly post links and media amongst the team.

Our team Trello board was used primarily as a means of tracking for our unit mentor, allowing them to view our own delegation of tasks, as well as adding their own in order to promote progress and development.

**[google hangouts](https://hangouts.google.com)** *group video-chat platform*

Google Hangouts was available to our team without effort due to the Google Suite backbone for RMIT email. Installing the hangouts [integration](link) with Slack, we were able to initiate hangouts directly from the Slack interface. A product of this process was to broadcast a notification to channel members of the hangout, with an easy link for members to click-to-join.

Google Hangouts were used throughout the development process for both our weekly mentor catchups, and our weekly team catchups. Using video conferencing helped build team cameraderie and familiarity, which was effective given our team were all strangers to each other at the beginning of the project.

**[heroku](https://www.heroku.com)** *backend hosting*

Heroku is a cloud-based platform that facilitates deployment and monitoring of Web Applications.

Luke configured a Dyno (a virtualised Linux container in Heroku parlance) that contained our Node.js server which could be spun-up on demand. Our application was light enough that we were able to take advantage of the free tier for our purposes, with no cost incurred.

Heroku features integration with CircleCI, allowing for swift deployment of successful builds to the

**[netlify](https://www.netlify.com)** *client-side hosting*



###### Ancillary

IDEs
Visual Studio Code
Webstorm



#### Challenges and Learning

##### What's been easy?

##### What's been difficult?

##### What's was unexpected?

##### What's challenges were you expecting?
###### What's been done to address?
###### What's been overcome?

##### New skills and/or experiences
###### What didn't work out as expected?

##### Plans
###### Did they change?
###### With hindsight, what would you change?

##### Was timetable realistic?
###### What would you change?

##### Tools and Technologies
###### Did they work out?
###### Did risks materialise?
###### Any unanticpated events affect progress?


#### Project Processes
##### What's been learned about group projects?
##### What were the group's processes for communication?
##### From your experience in this project, what is the most important aspect of organizing a project of this nature?
##### What advice would you give...?

#### Marketing Pitch

#### Skills and Jobs

##### Write four position descriptions for people that you would employ to take your project to the next phase
