Late Joiners - Group Catchup #2


2018-06-20  1000 UTC


Present:
Luke Warren
Matt Greig
Shae Tattlock


Agenda


New group members
* Welcome to Shae!
* David French is officially no longer a member of the group
* Blair is officially a member of the group (huzzah!)


Assignment
* What’s left to do?
* Who wants to do what?
   * Shae is our design guy
   * Owned up to Photoshop skills


Backlog items/Tasks
Next few days 
* list out user stories in the doc
* then split out into sprints (1 week sprints)
* Assigned rough time estimates
   * Part 1 Justified Workload relies on this
   * Part 3 of assignment relies on this
* Assigned to team members


MEAN stack
* At head of meeting while waiting for members, Luke brief Matt on frameworks and APIs for a MEAN stack
   * Did brief live coding demo
* Luke info re: tutorials etc
   * Links provided on Slack
      * New channel started on Slack 


Meeting with Sarah (Echo) tomorrow night
* Those who are there are there…
* MG to keep minutes and make public?


Other business
MG to submit assignment as PDF before due date Sunday night.
* Luke OOO Sunday
* Convert MD to PDF with required formatting as per Part 4 of assignment


Meeting Concluded at 1115 UTC
